# 1. Overview
The recruitment process of a company is an essential step for hiring new employees who are most qualified. To have an efficient and effective process, the company will need to acquire a talent pool, a database to store the potential job candidates. Nowadays, many companies deploy the technology of the Application Tracking Systems (ATS) to manage the data of applications. As the number of applications may be large, having a functional database can offer the benefits of efficient data extraction to employers and improve the level of an equal competition. The following sections emphasize the main functionalities of an ATS. 

## 1.1 Store Information of Applications
The recruitment process will first start from the employers by demonstrating the requirements of specific positions. To do so, employers will post job applications on their company websites or other job boards. Based on the post, such information will be stored. To illustrate, an application can include the applicant’s name, contact information, attached resume, work experience, education as required information. There will be optional information to be filled such as address or additional survey like ethnicity. Also, a company may want to capture the source of the application (i.e. on which platform does the applicant apply through?). Sometimes, applicants can apply through other job board websites. Otherwise, the job board websites will point the applicants to the company’s website and the company will ask the applicants to indicate the sources. 

## 1.2 Sort Information into Subsets 
Once the posts have been posted, ATS will start reviewing and comparing candidates. This will be a stage of data extraction by sorting and filtering. To do so, the manager will need to input the criteria of ideal candidates. In this case, the manager can see the descending ranking of applications based on their similarity with regards to the inputted criteria. For a specific percentage of applications, the manager may schedule tests and interviews with the applicants. These qualified candidates could be flagged or stored in a subset of database, by indicating they have passed the first round. In addition, the date of the interview will be saved as data. For those who are disqualified, the company will send them rejection letter. These applications as data will be retained in the archive, but the manager still can extract them in the future. 

## 1.3 Store Information of Online Tests and Interviews
The times of the interview and test can be varied from company to company. The information of each interview and test can also be stored in the system for comparisons. To illustrate, if a candidate has done an online test, a technical interview and or an HR interview, the results will be stored as number in the system. The stored results allow the system to perform ranking again. Hence, once a candidate is compatible enough for the first test, he or she will be on the top of the ranking and based on the percentage again, the manager will have the feature to inform them for the next interview. For those candidates who pass tests and interviews, the system will flag or stored them in a subset.

## 1.4 Update Information after Decisions Made
Once all the tests and interviews have finished, personal managers will make the hiring decision based on the ranking, following by reference checks. Once the top candidate is identified, personal managers then notify the interviewees and the relevant managers about the decision. When a job post is closed, the remaining applicants of rejected applicants are retained in the archive for a specific period. 

